---
layout: post
title:  A Healthcare Odyssey (Part 1)
categories: [health]
excerpt: He scrolled through the scans, paused to take a closer look, and then turned to me. "I'm sorry, but your tumor is growing."

What was supposed to be a routine check-up sent me off into a healthcare journey that I never saw coming.
---

# A Healthcare Odyssey (Part 1)

He scrolled through the scans, paused to take a closer look, and then turned to me. "I'm sorry, but your tumor is growing."

What was supposed to be a routine check-up sent me off into a healthcare journey that I never saw coming.

But first, let me backtrack.

## An unexpected visitor
In 2014, an x-ray taken during an annual health exam showed an abnormality in my spine. I received a call from the clinic, telling me to see a specialist for a follow-up test. Coming from a third-world country where getting sick was expensive, I had almost zero experience in navigating the healthcare system. In our household, ailments were treated with over-the-counter medicine, massages, and prayers. My only memories of hospitals were from when my younger sisters were born and of trips to the cardiologist's clinic for my grandmother.

Receiving that call was a shock, to say the least. I did as I was told and promptly looked for an orthopedic doctor who could tell me exactly what the problem was. I ended up seeing a youngish and moustached doctor who spoke enough English to make communication easy. We nicknamed him _Action Star_.

A few more x-rays later, he told me that I had a fracture on my L3, possibly caused by a tumor inside the vertebra. He recommended surgery to repair the fractured vertebra and install metal rods that would support my spine. His physician profile mentioned that he specialized in minimally invasive surgery, so I figured I was in good hands. I went for the surgery without seeking a second opinion. A noob move, I now know in hindsight.

The surgery went well (or so I thought). I was in pain for weeks, but soon enough I forgot about the tumor and my shiny new titanium rods. I worried about setting off airport sensors, but that really should've been the least of my worries.

## An overstaying guest
Fast forward to September 2021. When my parter, J, complained about a neck pain, I helped look for an orthopedic at the foreigner-friendly hospital we preferred. We went for a doctor who studied abroad, thinking that it would increase our chances of getting an English-speaking physician. We were not wrong about this. He was fluent in the language and seemed really kind. Since I was accompanying J to the appointment, I figured that I would book my own slot just to make sure that things were still fine in there. I hadn't had any symptoms since the surgery, so there didn't seem to be any compelling reason to see a doctor all these years.

The doc had me do an x-ray and the scan looked okay. He did, however, tell me that I might be better off if we remove my hardware since I no longer needed them. "It's a quick surgery. It will only take maybe 30 minutes." This came as a surprise because I thought getting the metal implants was a forever kinda thing. I hesitated at the idea of getting another surgery, but the doctor was insistent and he ordered an MRI to get a closer look.

It was my first ever MRI and I was very paranoid about going through the procedure with my dental braces. Articles online reassured me that it was perfectly fine, but I still checked with the nurses twice before finally lying on the bed and allowing myself to be strapped in. The machine was deafening even with a pair of ear plugs on. The hardest part was staying still for what seemed like forever. In reality, the entire procedure took about forty minutes.

About a week later, I was back at the doctor's clinic where he looked at my scans and delivered the news in a somber tone, "Your tumor is growing."

Truth be told, I had almost forgotten that it was still there, so I wasn't prepared to hear this piece of news. The doctor asked if I was okay and I managed to say yes. He offered me three possibilities, none of which sounded good. He wanted me to get a biopsy to find out the real identity of my guest.

## Walk, don't run
I don't know if it was wisdom kicking in or just shock speaking, but I asked the doctor if we could get blood tests or some other less invasive tests before I decide on getting a biopsy. He said yes and ordered some lab exams for me before sending me off with a gentle pat on my arm.

In the hours and days that followed, I broke the news to J, our families, and my boss. It didn't seem like I had any real choice regarding the biopsy, but I felt compelled to get a second opinion. I wasn't going to make the same mistake of rushing into a decision this time around. While looking for a new doctor, one thought kept ricocheting in my head, "How did he know that it's growing when he doesn't have a baseline to compare it with?" This thought persisted and grew into a resolve that has been pushing me to keep going until I find answers.
