---
layout: post
title:  A Healthcare Odyssey (Part 4)
categories: health
excerpt: The tumor is gone for good.
---

Hello, friends. I am happy to report that I survived the surgery. I didn't want to provide details last time, but it was a pretty extensive procedure and the fear of not making it out alive was real. The specialists I consulted with gave me two options: partial or complete resection. In simple terms, I either get to keep some of my verterbra or completely get rid of it. 

We decided to go with the latter. This procedure involved two incisions, removing and replacing my vertebra, and removing and installing new metal rods and screws for reinforcement.

I still find it hard to wrap my head around the thought that I have a brand new L3 as I sit here typing this. Science is awesome.

## Field notes from the hospital

The first three days in the hospital were pretty eventful. On day one, we reported for admission and I had to undergo several pre-surgery tests. On day two, I was wheeled off to the radiology department for embolization, a procedure that was meant to cut off the blood supply of my tumor. I was really anxious about it given my previous biopsy experience. I had to be awake for the entire thing, which they estimated to take between 4 to 6 hours. Thankfully, it was less painful than I expected and everything went so smoothly that it ended before the 4-hour mark. On day three, it was show time. I was on call and we didn't know the exact time the procedure would begin. I initially thought this would mean waiting (and starving) until late afternoon, but they told us to get ready around 9AM.

Before we had time to let reality sink in, I was wheeled off to the 4th floor for surgery. J only got to accompany me until we reached the big metal doors of the operating theater. I spent some time talking to nurses and an anesthesiologist at a holding area outside the actual operating rooms. While I was there, the metal doors opened sporadically, and I craned my neck to look for J in the crowd and waved. This happened a few times until finally, J motioned that she was heading back to the ward to take care of our stuff, so I smiled behind my mask and sent her off with finger hearts.

Not long after this, two nurses came to take me to my assigned operating theater where I barely had time to take in my surroundings before they started administering the anesthesia. All I remember thinking was, "so many lights and people" before the world turned black. 

When I regained consciousness, I was in the ICU. Everything was pretty much a blur at this point, but I recall seeing J standing by the door and I waved at her (or so I think). I probably passed out again after this because I wasn't aware that the nurses sent her off with a shopping list and that she had to leave the ICU a couple of times before I finally got to talk to her. When I was more lucid, I clearly remember two things: 1) J saying that I did so well and 2) me trying to move my feet to test if I could still feel them (I could).

At some point that evening, my assigned nurse sent J off again to get me food. I didn't know if I could hold down any solids, so I just asked for some soup. When J came back with my food, the nurse sent her off for the last time that night with instructions to get some rest. The poor thing had to wait 10+ hours for the surgery to finish and still had to go back and forth from the basement food court to the ICU to get everything the nurses asked for. I really don't know what good I did in this world to deserve J.

When we said our goodbyes, we weren't sure how long I would have to stay in the ICU. The only thing certain at that time was that she wouldn't be allowed in again until it was time for me to move back to the ward. By the third day, my vitals were stable enough for me to return to the ward where we expected to stay at least two weeks after the surgery.

## Road to recovery

The days following the surgery brought us good news, bad news, and everything in between. Good news: they were able to take the entire tumor out. Not-so-good news: my right leg was exceptionally weak and there were certain movements I couldn't do. Bad news: the tumor was malignant (more on this later).

I spent many hours in bed and I had to be turned every few hours to avoid bed sores. I downloaded movies and brought an ebook reader thinking that I would need something to keep me occupied, but I ended up either sleeping or not having the energy or attention span for such things. 

I saw different doctors, nurses, and occupational and physical therapists. The right leg weakness was a concern but they were mostly optimistic that things would go back to normal in due time. I just needed to heal. And so that's what I focused my energy on.

I was discharged from the hospital one week and six days after admission. I suppose I got lucky because the lunar new year meant that the hospital would only be partly operational. Since my recovery was on track and there was no real need to keep me there, my primary physician (aka D9 the rock star) signed my discharge papers earlier than planned. 

We've been home for two weeks now and recovery has been going pretty well. Time seems both fast and slow, though. I'm still not back at 100%, as expected. I will need to wear my back brace for at least three months while my spine heals and I currently use a walker for assistance. I'll start physical therapy soon though, and I'm really excited about that. 

I have to admit, it gets frustrating sometimes but I'm trying to focus on gratitute. After all, I'm able to do a lot more now compared to when I first woke up from surgery less than a month ago. At the end of the day, all that matters is that the tumor is out, J is by my side, and we have the best support group we could possibly ask for.

## Final verdict

So yeah, going back to the tumor. As it turns out, it wasn't just [benign with malignant behavior](https://rialitybytes.github.io/writing/odyssey-3/). It was actually malignant. We don't know if it has always been that way, but whatever they took out from my body ended up being a rare form of cancer called Epithelioid hemangioendothelioma (EHE). This mouthful is apparently so rare that only [one in every million](https://www.cancer.gov/pediatric-adult-rare-tumor/rare-tumors/rare-vascular-tumors/epithelioid-hemangioendothelioma) people are diagnosed with it worldwide.

Now what? Well, the doctors want to keep a close eye on me just to make sure that nothing else grows elsewhere. As much as I would love to take a break from hospital visits after this almost half-year journey, it's in my best interest to keep showing up for my doctors' appointments. After all, I am blessed to have the best possible team of doctors looking after my health. The least I can do is to be a patient patient (a difficult task, tbh).

This is the part where I remind you, yet again, to please do not take your health for granted. Remember, I didn't have any symptoms. I thought I was perfectly fine. And yet, I already had a cancerous tumor growing inside me. *I had no freaking idea.* 

For the record, I'm not trying to scare you. I just want you to be more careful about the food, emotions, and energies that you allow into your body. To listen to the messages that your body parts are telling you. If it's true that we only get one life, the least we can do is to make this one count and to make it last for as long as we possibly could.

P.S. I had hoped to write about other things before resuming this series, but here we are. I'm not sure what will become of this blog after this post, but thank you for reading. Take care, you.
