# A Healthcare Odyssey (Part 2)

---
layout: post
title:  A Healthcare Odyssey (Part 2)
categories: health
excerpt: I've never been a fan of rollercoasters and this one was anything but fun.
---

Seven years is a long enough time to do a lot of things, including, but not limited to:
- getting used to living and working in a foreign country
- learning some of its language
- learning from past mistakes
- having your medical files in the archive

[After I was told that I needed to get a biopsy done](https://rialitybytes.github.io/writing/odyssey-1/), I couldn't shake off a particular question: "How did the doctor know that the tumor was growing when he didn't have a baseline?". That was my first MRI, so it's not like he's seen it before, right? While this was most likely denial kicking in, this thought fueled my search for answers.

## Let the digging begin

I went back to the hospital where I had my first surgery and requested for my records. I asked friends and colleagues for advice about doctors and hospitals. I did my own research and went over physician profiles. In the end, I decided to go for a university hospital with a solid reputation and booked an appointment with a doctor whose specializations included spinal tumors. I really thought I was in control, but I wasn't.

On the day of my appointment, I went to the hospital early and waited for my turn. Armed with my medical records from Hospital 1 (H1) and copies of my scans from Hospital 2 (H2), I was prepared to have Doctor 3 (D3) look over my stuff and say, "False alarm. You're all good.". 

_Spoiler alert: that didn't happen._

Instead, D3 wasn't even in the room when I was called in. It just so happened that he had a meeting that morning and someone else (possibly a resident) was just filling in. He took my medical history and eventually conceded that this was above his pay grade. He asked if I had time to come back later that afternoon to see another doctor who was supposedly _the guy_ for spinal issues. I wasn't going to leave the hospital empty-handed, so I said yes.

Doctor 4 (D4) turned out to be the director of the Orthopedics Department and a professor at the university. I didn't get to see him right away, though. When I was first called in, a younger physician took my medical history and went over my scans. When D4 finally joined us in the clinic, they discussed my case and then asked me a few questions. 

D4 was incredulous about how 1) _Action Star_ didn't have me do an MRI before or after the surgery and 2) the biopsy report seemed to indicate that they didn't get a tumor sample last time. D4 actually told me to go back to _Action Star_ and ask him why. I told them that I didn't want to have anything to do with that doc and could they please just help me figure this out. They said yes and told me that they'll call me about the biopsy schedule.

## When answers lead to more questions

I don't know if I'm ready to talk about the actual biopsy process, but let's just say that it was the worst physical pain I've experienced, so far. I am definitely not looking forward to topping off that experience any time soon (Are you listening, Universe?).

We got the results a (torturous) week after the procedure. When we came to see D4 in his clinic, he told us that the tumor is benign. A second surgery was going to be tricky, so he didn't recommend it. We just had to monitor the thing every few months, but there was nothing to worry about. J and I were absolutely thrilled to hear this. We could barely hide our smiles behind our masks. We went out for dinner to celebrate and messaged our families to share the good news.

It was still early by the time we finished eating, so we decided to stop by a nearby supermarket. It wasn't until we got there that I noticed missed call notifications on my phone. J's phone started ringing before I could even tell her about them. She picked up the call and I knew from the look on her face that something was off.

"She's right here beside me, professor. Would you like to talk to her?"

I took the phone and D4 was on the line. He apologized, saying that he made a mistake. The tumor might be malignant after all but he wasn't sure, so he needed to check with the radiologist. He'll call me again when he has more information.

The call ended and I just stared at J. What the actual F just happened?

I honestly don't remember much of what happened after that call. It felt like a cruel joke that someone decided to play on us. I've never been a fan of rollercoasters and this one was anything but fun. I did feel like screaming, though.
