---
layout: post
title:  A Healthcare Odyssey (Part 1)
categories: health
excerpt: Finally, some clarity
---

# A Healthcare Odyssey (Part 3)

Unlike D4, I won't make you wait more than 48 hours for the confirmation. 

So we got the call, walked around like zombies at the supermarket, and cried when we got home. Probably. Like I said, I don't really remember much from that day apart from the maddening manner we received the news.

We waited two days but we missed his calls completely and neither of us caught it in time. We waited, but he didn't try calling again. At this point, we were at wit's end. A friend suggested that we just book D4's time again at his clinic so that he won't have any other choice but to deliver the news. So that's what we did.

We showed up at his clinic the day after he tried calling us and he basically just repeated what he already said over the phone. He thinks the tumor is low-grade malignant and now he recommends surgery. Nevermind that he previously said that surgery was going to be dangerous. This time around, it was "a risk I should take". I asked if there were alternative treatments that I could consider and he offered to ask other specialists on my behalf. He got my email address and said that he'd get back to me.

## More hospitals, more doctors

You can probably imagine how incredibly frustrating the situation had become by this point. One day I was just tagging along and the next thing we knew, the spotlight was on me. Thankfully, the ~~denial~~ resolve persisted and so the quest continued. We asked for more recommendations and did more research, which landed us at two more hospitals where I saw five more doctors. I suspect that at the end of this odyssey, we'd be able to write a user guide on how to navigate this country's healthcare system as a foreigner. But I digress.

At Hospital 4 (H4), I saw an oncologist (D5) who referred me to an orthopedic surgeon (D6). D6 then recommended a neurosurgeon at Hospital 5 (H5), but his calendar was booked for weeks and I had no way of getting an appointment. Incidentally, I already had an appointment booked for an orthopedic doc (D7) at H5, so I went to see him anyway. D7 referred me to an oncologist (D8), who then managed to get me a slot with the elusive neurosurgeon (D9). Are you still with me?

## Finally, some clarity

I won't bore you with the details of each consultation, but the general consensus among this new group of specialists is that the tumor is probably benign with malignant behavior (sounds like an inner child with self-destructive habits to me). All but one doc recommended surgery as the best course of treatmet, and so that's what we're going for. As much as I want to avoid going under the knife again, it really is for the best—as cliche as that sounds.

At the end of the day, I can't help but be grateful. I live in a country with a working health insurance system in place. Yes, we'd have to fork out cash, but it still wouldn't be as expensive as it would cost us back home. The healthcare system is a maze, but with kind guides and enough persistence, one can find the right doors. In my case, one such door led me to a neurosurgeon who is possibly the only qualified person on this island for the surgery I need.

More than anything, I am most grateful for the fact that I am not doing this alone. I have J, my sisters and their partners, my aunts and insan, and a handful of friends who know about what we've been going through. Updating people about the latest diagnosis and test result takes a lot of work, so we've moslty kept things to ourselves.

I decided to finally write about our experience for many reasons, but mostly to remind you to take care of your health. I cannot begin to emphasize how important it is to get yourself checked. We are all aging by the minute and we live in a world where our food and environments are not always kind to our bodies.

I have so much to say about health and healing, but I'll get off of my soap box now and save the preaching for another day. Take care, friends.

P.S.
It took a few weeks, but D4 did email me as promised. However, I had already decided on going with D9 by then.
